you
the year of 2015 has been declared the
International Year of light or iy l for
short by the united nations
organizations institutions and
individuals involved in the science and
applications of light will be joining
together for this year-long celebration
to help spread the word about the
wonders of light in many ways astronomy
uses the science of light by building
telescopes that can detect light in its
many forms from radio waves on one end
of the electromagnetic spectrum to gamma
rays on the other scientists can get a
better understanding of the processes at
work in the universe NASA's Chandra
x-ray Observatory explores the universe
in x-rays a high-energy form of light by
studying x-ray data and comparing them
with observations and other types of
light scientists can develop a better
understanding of objects that generate
temperatures of millions of degrees and
produce x-rays
to recognize the start of i yl the
Chandra x-ray Center is releasing a
collection of images that combine data
from telescopes tuned to different
wavelengths of light from a distant
galaxy to the relatively nearby debris
field of an exploded star these images
demonstrate the myriad ways that
information about the universe is
communicated to us through light so join
us in celebrating iy l and all of the
amazing things that light can do
including how it helps us understand the
universe we live in